From: Melissa Eisenberg

Second Chance Employer Initiative

Respondent Questions:
Does the company website if they accept returning citizens?
Does the application require you to identify yourself as a returning citizen?*
What is the interview process like?Any special papers, certifications?
What are the types of positions available for a returning citizen?
What is the average salary range for these positions?

*Depends on the state?

What is a returning citizen?
A returning citizen is an individual who has been recently released from prison. This group has had a history of adversity obtaining work and reintegrating into society. 

What is Second Chance Employer Initiative?
Our goal is to rebuild reentry into the workplace. Returning citizens are a core group of society that need to assistance to gain employment and provide a future for themselves. We work with this group directly, providing a platform to educate, connect and navigate the job market. 

Company Questions:
Do you hire returning citizens?
What are the requirements for a returning citizen to obtain a position?
What salary range are most jobs in?
Briefly describe your past experience with returning citizens (if any)?
Is there a trial period with new hires?

How does this benefit my company?
Our organization provides companies an opportunity to help regrow our job economy, providing jobs to an underserved group of society. Your company would help rebuild a process that doesn’t currently work, to help people contribute to society and fill needed roles. With new legislation, there are also government bonds and tax write offs for helping bolster this effort.

How do you sort people?
There are two main ways we ensure a good fit for all of our returning citizens:

Legal
When applying for a job or interviewing a candidate, no longer can employers ask about past incarceration. Upon more formal review, a background check can be done, and the company can opt out of the application process if the past offense is directly related to the job opportunity.

Best Practices
We make sure to organize applicants in the best way possible to fit the jobs that are available. We take into consideration the skill set of each applicant to ensure that the past offense does not correlate with the potential job opportunity.